README.md, before:

# Fosfor

Fosfor is a "matching engine" for connecting sellers to buyers of formally defined things. It is very small and relatively fast (being written in C). 

## Status

It is currently not feature complete enough to be used for actual production-like scenarios. Here are some of the major TO-DOs:

* Currently doesn't implement a "modify order" command, to modify order volume or cancel an order.
* Timeout of orders is currently not implemented.
* Doesn't send messages for confirmation of order matches.

## Instructions

To build:

```bash
rm fosfor ; gcc -Wall main.c fosfor.c readDatagram.c -o fosfor && ./fosfor
```

To send information with udp broadcast (assuming your network subnet is 192.168.10.0/24):

```bash
nc -b -u 192.168.10.255 2323
```

## Command data types

The data types correspond to the datatypes used in MessagePack

| Data type       | Encodes to                                |
|-----------------|-------------------------------------------|
| int 32          | 32 bit signed integer                     |
| positive fixint | 7 bit unsigned integer or ASCII character |
| fixstr          | 1-31 length byte array                    |

## Commands

All the events in the matching engine are done with commands. Commands are encoded as arrays (fixarray) in the MessagePack data format. The type of command is denoted with a single upper-case alphabetic character.

### c: Create order book

This will create an order book, to put orders in. Every order needs to be in an order book.

| Field name                | Data type | Description                                                |
|---------------------------|-----------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| priceTickOffset           | int 32    | The lowest price in the order book                         |
| priceTicks                | int 32    | Number of price ticks between lowest and highest           |
| orderBufferAllocationSize | int 32    | How much initial space a price tick should have for orders |
| orderBookId               | int 32    | Unique ID code of the order book                           |
| name                      | fixstr 16 | Unique name of the orderbook                               |

Example of order book creation in roughly equivalent YAML format:

```yaml
---
- "c" # commandType (positive fixint)
- 0 # priceTickOffset (int32)
- 1000 # priceTicks (int32)
- 10 # orderBufferAllocationSize (int32)
- 234 # orderBookId (int32)
- "ACME megacorp" # name (fixstr 16)
```

### a: Add order

This will add an order to an order book.

If timeToLive has a value of 0, the order will be a market order of type IOC (immediate or cancel, attempt to match all or part immediately and then immediately cancel any unfilled portion of the order).

| Field name    | Data type             | Description                                        |
|---------------|-----------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| userId        | int 32                | The unique ID of the user placing the order        |
| userReference | int 32                | The user's unique internal reference for the order |
| orderBookId   | int 32                | ID code of the order book                          |
| side          | positive fixint (B/A) | Bid or Ask                                         |
| price         | int 32                | Which price tick to place the order in             |
| volume        | int 32                | Number of units user wants to buy or sell          |
| timeToLive    | int 32                | How long before the order is deleted               |

Example of adding a bid order in roughly equivalent YAML format:

```yaml
---
- "a" # commandType (positive fixint)
- 123 # userId (int32)
- 789 # userReference (int32)
- 234 # orderBookId (int32)
- "B" # side (positive fixint (B/A))
- 10 # price (int32)
- 2 # volume (int32)
- 130 # timeToLive (int32)
```

### d: Delete order book

This will delete an order book. All orders in the deleted order book and their information will disappear.

| Field name  | Data type | Description               |
|-------------|-----------|---------------------------|
| orderBookId | int 32    | ID code of the order book |

Example of deleting an order book in roughly equivalent YAML format:

```yaml
---
- "d" # commandType (positive fixint)
- 234 # orderBookId (int32)
```

### m: Modify order (not yet implemented!)

The combination of userId, userReference, orderBookId, side and price fields are used when a user wants to modify or delete an order that has been placed. It's up to the user to keep track of these fields. The user will need to specify a value for volume and timeToLive, but a negative value will keep the old value. A value of 0 in either volume or timeToLive will delete the order from the order book. The price of an order can not be modified. A deleted order can not be modified further.

| Field name    | Data type             | Description                                        |
|---------------|-----------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| userId        | int 32                | The unique ID of the user placing the order        |
| userReference | int 32                | The user's unique internal reference for the order |
| orderBookId   | int 32                | ID code of the order book                          |
| side          | positive fixint (B/A) | Bid or Ask                                         |
| price         | int 32                | Which price tick the order is placed in            |
| volume        | int 32                | Number of units user wants to buy or sell          |
| timeToLive    | int 32                | How long before the order is deleted               |

Example of deleting an order in roughly equivalent YAML format:

```yaml
---
- "m" # commandType (positive fixint)
- 123 # userId (int32)
- 789 # userReference (int32)
- 234 # orderBookId (int32)
- "B" # side (positive fixint (B/A))
- 10 # price (int32)
- 0 # volume (int32)
- -1 # timeToLive (int32)
```

Commit message:

add note on undefined behavior in order addition

README.md, after:

# Fosfor

Fosfor is a "matching engine" for connecting sellers to buyers of formally defined things. It is very small and relatively fast (being written in C). 

## Status

It is currently not feature complete enough to be used for actual production-like scenarios. Here are some of the major TO-DOs:

* Currently doesn't implement a "modify order" command, to modify order volume or cancel an order.
* Timeout of orders is currently not implemented.
* Doesn't send messages for confirmation of order matches.

## Instructions

To build:

```bash
rm fosfor ; gcc -Wall main.c fosfor.c readDatagram.c -o fosfor && ./fosfor
```

To send information with udp broadcast (assuming your network subnet is 192.168.10.0/24):

```bash
nc -b -u 192.168.10.255 2323
```

## Command data types

The data types correspond to the datatypes used in MessagePack

| Data type       | Encodes to                                |
|-----------------|-------------------------------------------|
| int 32          | 32 bit signed integer                     |
| positive fixint | 7 bit unsigned integer or ASCII character |
| fixstr          | 1-31 length byte array                    |

## Commands

All the events in the matching engine are done with commands. Commands are encoded as arrays (fixarray) in the MessagePack data format. The type of command is denoted with a single upper-case alphabetic character.

### c: Create order book

This will create an order book, to put orders in. Every order needs to be in an order book.

| Field name                | Data type | Description                                                |
|---------------------------|-----------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| priceTickOffset           | int 32    | The lowest price in the order book                         |
| priceTicks                | int 32    | Number of price ticks between lowest and highest           |
| orderBufferAllocationSize | int 32    | How much initial space a price tick should have for orders |
| orderBookId               | int 32    | Unique ID code of the order book                           |
| name                      | fixstr 16 | Unique name of the orderbook                               |

Example of order book creation in roughly equivalent YAML format:

```yaml
---
- "c" # commandType (positive fixint)
- 0 # priceTickOffset (int32)
- 1000 # priceTicks (int32)
- 10 # orderBufferAllocationSize (int32)
- 234 # orderBookId (int32)
- "ACME megacorp" # name (fixstr 16)
```

### a: Add order

This will add an order to an order book.

If timeToLive has a value of 0, the order will be a market order of type IOC (immediate or cancel, attempt to match all or part immediately and then immediately cancel any unfilled portion of the order). If the combination of userId, userReference, OrderBookId, side and price are not unique, the behavior should be treated as "undefined".

| Field name    | Data type             | Description                                        |
|---------------|-----------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| userId        | int 32                | The unique ID of the user placing the order        |
| userReference | int 32                | The user's unique internal reference for the order |
| orderBookId   | int 32                | ID code of the order book                          |
| side          | positive fixint (B/A) | Bid or Ask                                         |
| price         | int 32                | Which price tick to place the order in             |
| volume        | int 32                | Number of units user wants to buy or sell          |
| timeToLive    | int 32                | How long before the order is deleted               |

Example of adding a bid order in roughly equivalent YAML format:

```yaml
---
- "a" # commandType (positive fixint)
- 123 # userId (int32)
- 789 # userReference (int32)
- 234 # orderBookId (int32)
- "B" # side (positive fixint (B/A))
- 10 # price (int32)
- 2 # volume (int32)
- 130 # timeToLive (int32)
```

### d: Delete order book

This will delete an order book. All orders in the deleted order book and their information will disappear.

| Field name  | Data type | Description               |
|-------------|-----------|---------------------------|
| orderBookId | int 32    | ID code of the order book |

Example of deleting an order book in roughly equivalent YAML format:

```yaml
---
- "d" # commandType (positive fixint)
- 234 # orderBookId (int32)
```

### m: Modify order (not yet implemented!)

The combination of userId, userReference, orderBookId, side and price fields are used when a user wants to modify or delete an order that has been placed. It's up to the user to keep track of these fields. The user will need to specify a value for volume and timeToLive, but a negative value will keep the old value. A value of 0 in either volume or timeToLive will delete the order from the order book. The price of an order can not be modified. A deleted order can not be modified further.

| Field name    | Data type             | Description                                        |
|---------------|-----------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| userId        | int 32                | The unique ID of the user placing the order        |
| userReference | int 32                | The user's unique internal reference for the order |
| orderBookId   | int 32                | ID code of the order book                          |
| side          | positive fixint (B/A) | Bid or Ask                                         |
| price         | int 32                | Which price tick the order is placed in            |
| volume        | int 32                | Number of units user wants to buy or sell          |
| timeToLive    | int 32                | How long before the order is deleted               |

Example of deleting an order in roughly equivalent YAML format:

```yaml
---
- "m" # commandType (positive fixint)
- 123 # userId (int32)
- 789 # userReference (int32)
- 234 # orderBookId (int32)
- "B" # side (positive fixint (B/A))
- 10 # price (int32)
- 0 # volume (int32)
- -1 # timeToLive (int32)
```
